AC-1394 Review Glue API backend docs (#1269)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/dev/glue-api-guides/202204.0/glue-backend-api/how-to-guides/how-to-create-a-route.md

---
title: How to create a route

> description: 

Author: ```suggestion
description: This document describes how to create a route
```

last_updated: September 30, 2022
template: howto-guide-template
redirect_from:
  - /docs/scos/dev/glue-api-guides/202204.0/glue-backend-api/how-to-guides/create-a-route.html
---

This guide shows how you can create an API endpoint using a custom route.

> New Glue lets you create plain routes directly to a controller. This might be useful in a variety of cases—for example, building a non-resource-based API or endpoints that do not need or cannot be adapted to use resources.

Author: ```suggestion
Glue lets you create plain routes directly to a controller. This might be useful in a variety of cases—for example, building a non-resource-based API or endpoints that do not need or cannot be adapted to use resources.
```

Custom routes are based on Symfony routing.

> Let's say you have a Storefront module named `FooApi`, where you want to have a new backend API endpoint `/foo/bar` with GET and POST methods. For this, follow these steps:

Author: ```suggestion
Let's say you have a Storefront module named `FooApi`, where you want to have a new backend API endpoint `/foo/bar` with GET and POST methods. To create the new backend API endpoint, follow these steps:
```

1. Create a `FooBarController` with the action:

**\Pyz\Glue\FooApi\Controller\FooBarController**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Glue\FooApi\Controller;

use Generated\Shared\Transfer\GlueRequestTransfer;
use Generated\Shared\Transfer\GlueResponseTransfer;
use Spryker\Glue\Kernel\Backend\Controller\AbstractController;

class FooBarController extends AbstractController
{
    /**
     * @param \Generated\Shared\Transfer\GlueRequestTransfer $glueRequestTransfer
     *
     * @return \Generated\Shared\Transfer\GlueResponseTransfer
     */
    public function getCollectionAction(GlueRequestTransfer $glueRequestTransfer): GlueResponseTransfer
    {
        // return $this->getFactory()->createFooBarReader()->readFooBar();
        return new GlueResponseTransfer();
    }
}

```

An empty response is returned for now, but module's Factory is available and can be used to access Processor models or external dependencies the same way it is done everywhere in Spryker.

{% info_block infoBox %}

> Pay attention to the `AbstractController` you use, Storefront and Backend variation exists in Glue layer.

Author: ```suggestion
Pay attention to `AbstractController` you use, Storefront and Backend variation exists in the `Glue` layer.
```

{% endinfo_block %}

2. Create `FooBarRouteProviderPlugin`

**\Pyz\Glue\FooApi\Plugin\FooBarRouteProviderPlugin**

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Glue\FooApi\Plugin;

use Pyz\Glue\FooApi\Controller\FooBarController;
use Spryker\Glue\GlueApplicationExtension\Dependency\Plugin\RouteProviderPluginInterface;
use Spryker\Glue\Kernel\Backend\AbstractPlugin;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\Route;
use Symfony\Component\Routing\RouteCollection;

class FooBarRouteProviderPlugin extends AbstractPlugin implements RouteProviderPluginInterface
{
    public function addRoutes(RouteCollection $routeCollection): RouteCollection
    {
        $getRoute = (new Route('/foo/bar'))
            ->setDefaults([
                '_controller' => [FooBarController::class, 'getCollectionAction'],
                '_resourceName' => 'fooBar',
            ])
            ->setMethods(Request::METHOD_GET);

        $routeCollection->add('fooBarGetCollection', $getRoute);
        
        return $routeCollection;
    }
}
```

{% info_block infoBox %}

> Note that `AbstractPlugin` specific to the storefront or backend needs to be used.

Author: ```suggestion
Ensure you use `AbstractPlugin` specific to the storefront or backend needs.
```
